Group 7: Arpitha Coorg, Diva Chhabra, Kashish Sethi, Komal Jain
Link to the website: https://ksethi2027.github.io/DS4200project/

Map of India w/ AQI Levels Design Idea:
For this visualization I used GeoPandas and Matplotlib to create a geographic representation of air quality in major Indian cities. Each city is marked with a star, which color is based on the most frequently recorded AQI category in our dataset. The purpose of this visualization was to display long-term pollution trends by simplifying multiple AQI records into one value per city. I chose custom colors to reflect the severity of the air quality; Green for Good, Beige for Satisfactory, Yellow for Moderate, Purple for Poor, Red for Very Poor, and Black for Severe. I also added a legend to the side of the map to make it easier for the reader to identify the different AQI levels. I added labels to each of the cities to increase readability and provide a clear and concise map. 


Chart of CO Levels for each City Design Idea:
For this chart, I used Altair to create an interactive line graph showing CO levels in different Indian cities over time. I first cleaned up the dataset by converting the dates into months and averaging the CO levels for each city per month. To make the chart more interactive and clear, I added a drop down so users can pick a city and focus on its trends. Each data point is marked to make it easier to read, and I adjusted the line opacity so overlapping lines don’t get too messy. I also added tooltips that show the city, month, and CO level when you hover over a point. The colors help differentiate cities while keeping the chart clean and simple. Overall, this design makes it easy to spot trends and compare CO levels across cities.


Bar Plot for the Average O3 Levels for each City Design Idea:
For this chart, I used D3.js to create a side-by-side barplot visualizing the average O3 levels across the five major Indian cities. I first processed the dataset to extract and calculate the average O3 levels for each city. To ensure clarity, I used a separate bar for each city with distinct spacing, making comparisons easier. I styled the bars with a clean blue color scheme and added numerical labels on top of each bar to improve readability.The simple and structured design keeps the focus on the data, making it easy to compare O3 levels across cities at a glance.


Bar Plot for the Average NOx levels for each city:
For this chart, I used Altair to create an interactive bar plot showing the NOx levels in the different cities over time. The first step was to reshape the dataset so that it was compatible with the Altair encoding system. I then added a dropdown menu to allow the user to select a specific year, which updates the chart to reflect the NOx level for that city. Each of the cities are represented with a unique bar color to make the comparisons easy to differentiate. The x-axis lists the cites, while the y-axis shows the average NOx concentration. This design makes it easy to explore nitrogen pollution trends across cities and track how concentrations change over time.
